# Home Assistant Add-on: ProtonMail Bridge addon

ProtonMail does not provide any SMTP server to integrate with the notification
system of Home Assistant. Instead they provide a tool called the ProtonMail 
Bridge.

This bridge should be installed locally and act as a local SMTP server on 
which we should connect Home Assistant to send notifications.

This bridge is responsible to encrypt emails before sending them to the
ProtonMail server.

## Installation

You can install this Home Assistant add-on using my add-on repository 
following these Home Assistant Add-on Instructions.

You can install this Home Assistant add-on using 
[my add-on repository](https://github.com/fboulay/ha-repository) 
following these 
[Home Assistant Add-on Instructions](https://www.home-assistant.io/hassio/installing_third_party_addons/).

## Configuration

**Note**: _Remember to restart the add-on when the configuration is changed._

Example add-on configuration:

```yaml
username: my_proton_mail_username
password: my_proton_mail_password
```

**Note**: _This is just an example, don't copy and paste it! Create your own!_

### Option: `username`

Enter you ProtonMail username in this field.

### Option: `password`

Enter you ProtonMail password in this field.
## Configuring Home Assistant to send notification using ProtonMail Bridge

```yaml
notify:
  - name: ProtonMail
    platform: smtp
    sender: your_protonmail_email_address
    recipient: email_address_of_recipient
    server: xxxx
    port: 25
    timeout: 30
    encryption: starttls
    username: your_protonmail_username
    password: generated_protonmail_bridge_password
    sender_name: Home Assistant
```

IMPORTANT: You must use the password generated by the ProtonMail Bridge, not your 
ProtonMail password. To see this password, check the logs of the addon in the 
supervisor.

## Known issues and limitations

- This add-on only works on `armv7` architectures (Raspberry PI), because it could 
not be tested on other architectures.
- This add-on is using an old version of the ProtonMail Bridge (1.4.5) because of some bugs 
on `armv7` architecture on later versions.

## Changelog & Releases

This repository keeps a change log using [GitHub's releases][releases]
functionality.

Releases are based on [Semantic Versioning][semver], and use the format
of `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`. In a nutshell, the version will be incremented
based on the following:

- `MAJOR`: Incompatible or major changes.
- `MINOR`: Backwards-compatible new features and enhancements.
- `PATCH`: Backwards-compatible bugfixes and package updates.

## Support

Got questions?

You can [open an issue here][issue] GitHub.

## Authors & contributors

The original setup of this repository is by [Florian Boulay][fboulay].

It is based on the work of [Xiaonan Shen][shenxn] who inspired this repository for the build process of ProtonMail bridge. The original repository is https://github.com/shenxn/protonmail-bridge-docker

## License

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2021 Florian Boulay

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

[fboulay]: https://github.com/fboulay
[shenxn]: https://github.com/shenxn 
[issue]: https://github.com/fboulay/addon-ha-protonmail-bridge/issues
[releases]: https://github.com/fboulay/addon-ha-protonmail-bridge/releases
[semver]: http://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.htm
